Alright! In this video, we are going to go
in and add the ability to add or update
an owner. So we go ahead and implement
this. I will assign that to myself. To get
started on it, we're going to be working
with this. What I've done is come
over here. Quick code review. So we want
to do an add functionality and an update
functionality. Now we're going to be
using the same form. It's this createOr
UpdateOwnerForm that we're going to be
utilizing. Both of these actions have
they implement it a little bit
differently than what I've done in the
past but this will work out well for us.
So we have two processor, so we have an
initializer, which for a new situation is
just going to return back an empty owner
object. But in the update action, that's
going to return back the populated
owner object that's been requested. So
two different scenarios that we're
supporting. And then we both, we need to
do a save of it at the end of the day
also. We'll need to implement save
method as well. I've written these
tests so I'm going to come in here go
ahead and run this.  I'm expecting
that these will fail. Get rid of that
break point because we don't need it.
You can see that my update and
create methods did in fact fail as
expected. So what we want to do is go in
to our controller and implement that. I'm
going to close out some of these that we
don't need. There's are OwnerController.
Let's take a look at what Spring
guys did.
We have these here that GetMapping and the PostMapping. I'm going to
shame lessly steal this and we'll modify
it for this.
So let's come in here to IntelliJ OwnerController. Let's come in and add
these methods.
So we have the
GetMapping. I'm going to take an actual
Model. This is a change from what the
Spring guys did. We're going to add an
attribute called owner owner so we have
new Owner. I like the Builder pattern
a little bit better.
I have the String here. Let's take a look
at that. This is the view name.
This is actually a habit I like and
probably it would be a good refactoring
to make these views static final String.
That's a good habit to get into it.
That is an approach that I like. We
could easily refactor some of those too
to utilize that. I'm going to change
this code a little bit. Clean this up
because we don't need that
explicitly. We can just do that right
here. Get rid of that. I think that's just
a little bit cleaner approach. Then
let's set in this PostMapping.
And here,
you can see that they are doing a Valid
so we are running validation on the
Owner and the BindingResult. Let's
see here. If we have errors, what's going to
happen is this is going to return back
so that BindingResult will get returned
back as well in Spring MVC and then we
can just say
owner
Service save owner.
That should work. What I like to do
here is Owner.
That's just a little preference of
myself because when you save it, when we
go through the save option, we are going
to return back the saved object and then
I'm just going to get the ID off of that.
It's really more of a personal
preference in how I like to do things.
So we have these here. Now the two
creations should drop off, so these two
here. so let's go ahead and rerun the
failing tests.
And they all failed
so let's take a look at the creation.
So it's saying that we had a type
conversion error. So owners
new. See here so.
I get a closer look at the Owner
Controller.
Ah, I see what's happening. So again, I have
owners
and what I need to do is get rid of that, like
so. So that is in the mappings. So now,
the two creations with the proper
mapping, those passed. Now let's go
ahead and implement the stuff for the
actual update. So let's come in and again
I'm going to go steal absolutely
shamelessly from what the Spring guys
did in theirs and we'll just modify
that. I'm going to show you a couple
tricks here as well as we go into that.
Again, we get rid of that because we are
declaring that at the class level.
So now we have the init form.
What we can do here. Going to make this a
little bit cleaner. Service.
I really don't need that object so
I'll just get rid of that.
Come here.
That's a
cleaner. We're just going to take the
model attribute and populate it right
from the ownerService which does in
fact return back the Owner object.
Let's see here. I believe that
is good for the update. Now as far as
processing the post,
we have valid Owner BindingResult.
That's going to be a Long as well
because our data types a little bit
different, return owners and again I'm
going to do...
We're going to get rid of that. A little
bit different.
Spell that right.
What's happening here is we're going to
come in, we get the ownerId bind.
Remember we have our init binder which
is preventing the Model from getting the
ID. So there are paths or with the
form variables will all make the get
bound to owner
except for ID so that's why we need to
explicitly set it which is coming out of
the path. We do that then we're going to
save it and then we're going to redirect
to owners and then the ID property. So
let's go ahead and I think that changes
everything so let's go ahead and do that.
Then there's couple. One more thing I
want to show you here. So that is
working. Now this PathVariable here, you can
see how we have ownerId. This ownerId
ownerId ownerId. Now we can omit this
and also here I believe we can admit
that. As long as this String value
matches a property name, pretty sure Path
Variable is going to work so let's go
ahead and run this again.
You can see that all went through.
It's a little shortcut. They did add that.
I think it was in a late release of
Spring 4, if I remember right. Initially
you didn't need to declare, if memory
serves me properly. Then again, I can
clean that up here as well.
Now let's go ahead and run all our tests.
You can see that that application test that
brings up the context. That's what's
taking so long there and then our
controller tests actually run fairly
quick, so we are building up our suite of
tests as we develop here. Now let's run
the application. Take a look at how that
runs.
In theory, it should work but let's make
sure that Thymeleaf is happy with
everything being returned because this
is going to test the controller
interactions and the views but we are
not testing the Thymeleaf templates here.
So let's come over here pet clinic
home find owners.
Let's add
an owner. Now we're getting a 500
error. That's why we go through the
functional test.
Let's see here.
It was complaining about this owner
new.
Line 23.
I'm going to pause this a minute and
investigate further because I'm not
quite sure what we want to do there. So
hold on one second. I know. Give it a
second. I swear I'm not even moving it's
just doing this on its own. Okay. I took a
moment to research that. This is a
test to see if the owner is new and to
refer back to the button tucks to show
add owner or update owner. That's why
it's blowing up that new property.
What they are doing here in Spring on
the BaseEntity is they have a is new
property and I did not implement that.
So let's come in and implement that
method. We need to implement that up
here in our model.
We can do that on our BaseEntity.
Now I'll just do like this. I
remember seeing that but I didn't know
what they were using that for. So now we
have discovered that so let's go ahead
and build
which will trigger a reload of
Spring. We can see Spring Boot is
on the class loader is now
reinitializing a Spring Application and
that is up. Let's come back over here and
see if this works now.
There we go.
Since its football season here ,we'll use
a Joe Buck, a well-known announcer.
We'll go ahead and add that. We can see
that is now there.
Now let's test the Edit as well. We'll
say main street date owner and we can
see that that is working as well. So in
just a short few minutes, we've
added in the ability to create
owners and update them. So let's go ahead
and do that. We can see that Joe Buck has
now been added to this but of course
I'll go away when I restart but now we
have that that ability. Coming up, we
will be adding in the add pet
functionality as well but we can see
that Joe does not have any pets but
that's going to be an upcoming video.
So let's come in here. All the test run.
That was issue number 55 so we'll go in
and close that.
and I'll commit and push that.